Hello guys, today we'll talk a little bit more about another important feature of Camunda, and that is Signal Event. According to the BPMN20 standard, signals are broadcasts that notify all waiting process instances to continue, and in Camunda, signal is an event of a global scope and is also delivered to all active handlers. Let's see a real example of how well we can utilize that feature. First, let's quickly model a process. This one will be extremely simple, as it will contain only one signal and a human task, simply to showcase the idea behind the signals. Of course, while modeling our process, we need to configure a few properties, but it is extremely important to explicitly pass the signal name, as eventually, this will become the value which we'll refer to in the nearest future. Now, let's start our application, and let's quickly start the process. As you can see, our process has started, and we already have one ongoing instance. And as expected, the process is in wait state, and it is awaiting a signal to be triggered. This behavior is very similar to the messages, but the essential difference between signals and the message is that the letter is always addressed to a specific resident. There are several ways to actually register this signal in the runtime service. Let's try out the first one, and for this purpose, we will use Camunda REST API. All it takes is just to send a HTTP POST request with a specific body. And now, as you can see, the token went further, which indicates that the signal was registered. Now, let's try out a way to achieve the same goal. This time, we will do it programmatically. For this purpose, we will need a custom Spring Boot controller, which will expose business logic. All it takes is just to inject runtime service into the controller, and it gives us a possibility to create a signal event. We will do it another way to achieve. It will give us a little bit of speed. We will be in action to create a 좋은 region. Let's do it. Here we will build a theory. We will be in action. We will be in action and ask a way to create a simulation for this problem in the future. So, let's try out the second part. We are there. There will be a pumpkin. We will also be in time. It will be hollow as a way to do it. The bundlevel will continue. There will be a pumpkin. In the肌 X. The set the idea is just to end and review well. Now, ladies and a moment. Now is the plan to want to enjoy that. Let's rerun the application, and now, let's send a similar request as before, but this time, it will be directed to our custom API, instead of the Kamunda API. There we go, the result is exactly the same, however, this approach might seem to be more friendly to the applications that don't use KamundaRest API. As you can see, signal events can be very handy if you want to communicate an event to multiple process instances. This one too many relationships can make a real impact on many specific corner cases. That's the end of this video, I hope you guys enjoyed it, until the next time. 