Hello guys, in this video we will go through a custom solution developed by us in the Vapo, the Kamunda JMS Connector. It is a small library which acts as a plugin to the Kamunda Connectors feature and it allows sending and receiving messages from local JMS instances straight from the Kamunda Modeler. Let's go into the technical details. The connector itself contains two modules, the publisher responsible for queuing messages and the listener responsible for queuing messages and creating a message correlation in the engine. The first thing that you need to do is to include the connector library in your project. Once it's there, some manual customization has to be done. For instance, you need to point to the particular Java message service that you want to connect with and for this purpose just follow the steps included in the readme. In this tutorial, we will showcase the logic behind the JMS connector on a simple example. We will model one process that will queue a custom message on a local active enqueue instance. This part will be handled by the publisher. There will also be a second process that will be triggered upon a specific message correlation. Our listener will dequeue the published message, parse it and create a specific message correlation, which eventually will start the second process. To create our first process, we will just simply put one service task that will utilize our connector logic. All it takes is to pass a particular connector ID and following that a few input parameters. Amongst them, there is a URL, which is an address of our active enqueue instance, queue, which is the name of the queue that should contain the message, and the message itself, which has to be specified in a JSON format. The second process is also pretty straightforward. It is triggered upon a specific message and it contains one human task, so we can easily verify that it has launched. To start with, let's run a local active enqueue instance. I highly recommend going for a docker container edition, but of course anything else will work just fine. Now let's start our application. As always, we have to deploy our processes and now let the jumpsuit task list. From there, let's start the first process which should enqueue a message on our local active enqueue instance. If we go back to the cockpit, we can see that indeed another process instance was started. That indicates that the message was dequeued and correct message correlation was created. Kamunda JMS Connector is a Kamunda Connect plugin extension that allows to enqueue and dequeue messages on a Java message service in any project that uses Kamunda engine with BPMN processes. It is fully customizable and by using it in a project, a user can model a BPMN process where it is possible to enqueue any message on a particular instance of a JMS. The connector also features receiving messages from the desirable queue and upon receiving the payload, it triggers a message in the Kamunda engine which ultimately can start a new instance of a process or continue an existing one depending on how the connector and the processes are tasked with. This approach is a popular one if you are using a Kamunda Platform 7. With the new version of Kamunda, this approach is slightly different but we will showcase how to migrate the solution to the version 8 in another video. Kamunda JMS Connector is an extension that allows to enqueue and dequeue messages on Java message service. It is fully customizable and it is also an open source solution so any contributions are greatly appreciated. Thanks for watching, I'll see you next time. 