Hello guys! In this video, I will go through the TM Forum OpenAPI standard, based on the CRUD example with MongoDB. TM Forum OpenAPI is used in the telecommunications industry and it can help companies a lot. You can leverage this standard to improve interoperability, consistency, flexibility, cost savings and many others. Let's get to the technical details and see how to unlock disadvantages. Let's move to the code editor and write some code. I will start from modeling TMF resources in the code. For the purpose of this tutorial, I have chosen Appointment Management. Appointment class has few simple fields and few more complex ones. I will also create an appointment patch object, which will be used for patching the appointment resource. I will also create a few enum classes to allow validating the value of the fields. This is what the appointment class and appointment patch look like. Now I can move to the configuration of MongoDB. The easiest way to run MongoDB is to start the container. It is needed to create a Mongo client in the application to allow connection. Let's create a configuration class that will have a Mongo client with set properties for our containerized Mongo. I am defining MongoUri and database name in application properties. The next step is to create a service for basic operation on our TMF resource. I will start with a method for creating a Mongo collection for our appointments. In MongoDB, data is stored in collections that consists of JSON documents. The createAppointment method will be used to create the appointment. With little help from object mapper, I can save a resource in the form of MongoDocument and by MongoTemplate insert it to the collection. The getAppointmentById method is used to extract a resource from the database. The deleteAppointmentById method is used to delete a resource from the database. The updateAppointment method is used to update the resource. Using the id parameter, I can pull the resource from our collection. Then use object mapper and JSONMergePatch to merge the values from application patch and document from Mongo collection into one. At the end of this method, I can finally save the document in the collection. Now, I can create a REST controller for the service. The update will be placed on the two documents we need to be reimbursed twice, patched eyes of use to collect data available from MDC stream audio, the RFT. It will be withorganized tomato sales but it will be a natural accreditation to enter the Prince of proprietorship but it will not be allowed to collect data then, the archive of theьer Fred使ky. Let's do some tests. I will use a postman for this. I will set up an appointment resource. The results can be checked in MongoDB compass. Now I will test the get appointment method. It's time for patch. I can change the related party field in the appointment document. This is what it looks like in MongoDB compass. Some basic validation can be added to our resource. I will add a few not new annotation on require fields. In the appointment service, I should add validated annotation to turn on validation and valid annotation to point out objects for validation. Now, once I'm creating appointments, I need to remember about required fields. This is how a basic CRAT application with TM Forum Open API and MongoDB looks like. Using non-relational databases is much more suitable for TMF resources like appointment rather than relational databases. The only thing which is needed is to create classes which model resources. Then, you don't have to worry about the relations between all of the resources, which makes the changes of the structure more approachable. Thanks to MongoDB, we can create multiple and flexible queries which enable searching data and creating projections of TMF resources. We can specify fields to return in projections. Moreover, by using MongoDB, we limit the number of IO operations. In relational DB, updating appointment resource would require a transaction. But in MongoDB, there's a single update operation on a document. That's all for today. I hope you guys enjoy it. See you next time. See you next time. 